Wallet Instance Revocation (#300)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/wallet-attestation.rst

During the *Wallet Instance initialization and registration* phase the Wallet Provider MAY associate the Wallet Instance with a specific User, subject to obtaining the User's consent. The Wallet Provider MUST evaluate the operating system and general technical capabilities of the device to check compliance with the technical and security requirements and to produce the Wallet Instance metadata.
When the User consents to being linked with the Wallet Instance, they gain the ability to directly request Wallet revocation from the Wallet Provider, and it also allows the Wallet Provider to revoke the Wallet Instance associated with that User.

The following situations could occur:

- The smartphone is lost;
- The smartphone has been compromised (e.g., a malicious actor gains control of the smartphone);
- The smartphone has been reset to factory settings;
- Other scenarios where the owner can no longer access their Wallet Instance.

> If any of these situations occur, the owner **MUST** revoke the Wallet Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of these situations occur, the owner **MUST** revoke the Wallet Instance.
```

please define the "owner"

Reviewer 2: I would suggest to use 'holder' in every occurrence of 'owner' .
Holder would be defined as: "User that has activated and has full control of an instance of the EUDI wallet and the related private keys".
Some reference of this can be seen in art. 6a, point 7 of the amending regulation

To achieve this the Wallet Provider (WP) **MUST** provide a Web Portal where the end user can access and request the revocation of the Wallet Instance.

> The suggested solution for a owner/end user is to establish a secure backup plan at the beginning of the registration process. The backup **MUST NOT** be stored in the same location as the private key. Instead, it should be saved to a different location, such as a cloud solution or a legacy storage solution. The purpose of the backup is to facilitate the recovery of the Hardware Private Key generated by the secure HSM chip on the smartphone's motherboard. For example, a method such as a the generation of seed phrases could be implemented to recover the lost Hardware private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In this manner, the owner can effortlessly restore their Wallet Instance without generating a new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I would remove the part of the sentence, e.g removing " The backup **MUST NOT** be stored in the same location as the private key. Instead, it should be saved to a different location, such as a cloud solution or a legacy storage solution."
From one side, backup could be within the same WSCD device for example if this is a local external device, and a generic 'cloud solution' surely is not advisable at this purpose as it could not provide the right level of security.

> 
> The backup and restore specification are address in the *Backup and Restore* chapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

During the *Wallet Instance initialization and registration* phase the Wallet Provider MAY associate the Wallet Instance with a specific User, subject to obtaining the User's consent. The Wallet Provider MUST evaluate the operating system and general technical capabilities of the device to check compliance with the technical and security requirements and to produce the Wallet Instance metadata.
When the User consents to being linked with the Wallet Instance, they gain the ability to directly request Wallet revocation from the Wallet Provider, and it also allows the Wallet Provider to revoke the Wallet Instance associated with that User.

Regarding the reasons for revoking a Wallet Instance, the following scenarios may occur:

- The smartphone is lost;
- The smartphone has been compromised (e.g., a malicious actor gains control of the smartphone);
- The smartphone has been reset to factory settings;
- Any other scenarios where the User loses the control of the Wallet Instance.

If any of the previous scenarios occur, the Wallet Instance **MUST** be revoked.

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To allow the User to revoke the Wallet Instance, the Wallet Provider (WP) **MUST**  offer a remote service, such as a web page, where the User can authenticate and request the revocation of a previously activated Wallet Instance.

> The suggested solution for a holder is to establish a secure backup plan at the beginning of the registration process. The purpose of the backup is to facilitate the recovery of the Hardware Private Key generated by the secure HSM chip on the smartphone's motherboard. For example, a method such as a the generation of seed phrases could be implemented to recover the lost Hardware private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we already had a conversation about this and it makes me frustrated found it again and be forced to remove it by my hands.

the scope of the technical specification is not provide "suggested solution" but define what must or must not, should or should not or may be done with clear statements. key derivation mechanisms are not standardized and therefore out of this specs. At the same time, in the form proposed in this PR are not useful.

> In this manner, the holder can effortlessly restore their Wallet Instance without generating a new one.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

out of scope for the section wallet attestation.

During the *Wallet Instance initialization and registration* phase the Wallet Provider MAY associate the Wallet Instance with a specific User, subject to obtaining the User's consent. The Wallet Provider MUST evaluate the operating system and general technical capabilities of the device to check compliance with the technical and security requirements and to produce the Wallet Instance metadata.
When the User consents to being linked with the Wallet Instance, they gain the ability to directly request Wallet revocation from the Wallet Provider, and it also allows the Wallet Provider to revoke the Wallet Instance associated with that User.

> The following situations could occur:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regarding the reasons for revoking a Wallet Instance, the following scenarios may occur:
```

- The smartphone is lost;
- The smartphone has been compromised (e.g., a malicious actor gains control of the smartphone);
- The smartphone has been reset to factory settings;

> - Other scenarios where the holder can no longer access their Wallet Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any other scenarios where the User loses the control of the Wallet Instance.
```

> If any of these situations occur, the holder **MUST** revoke the Wallet Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of the previous scenarios occur, the Wallet Instance **MUST** be revoked.
```

> .. note::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

we don't use normative language within the notes, since the notes must be used as notes only.

> the *Holder* is defined as the user that has activated and has full control of an instance of the EUDI wallet and the related private keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

we have the section with the defined terms for this. Please do not define terms along the documents sections

> To achieve this the Wallet Provider (WP) **MUST** provide a Web Portal where the end user can access and request the revocation of the Wallet Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow the User to revoke the Wallet Instance, the Wallet Provider (WP) **MUST**  offer a remote service, such as a web page, where the User can authenticate and request the revocation of a previously activated Wallet Instance.
```
